{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar \f4 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar \b\f5\fs32\kerning32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar \b\i\f5\fs28 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}{
\s3\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar \b\f5 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}{\s4\qj\keepn\nowidctlpar \b\f4\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 4;}{\s5\qj\keepn\nowidctlpar \f4\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\qc\nowidctlpar \f4\fs28 \sbasedon0\snext15 Body Text;}{\s16\nowidctlpar \f4\fs28 \sbasedon0\snext16 Body Text 2;}{\s17\qj\li1440\nowidctlpar \f4\fs28 \sbasedon0\snext17 Body Text Indent 2;}{\s18\qj\fi-720\li1440\nowidctlpar \f4\fs28 
\sbasedon0\snext18 Body Text Indent 3;}{\s19\qj\nowidctlpar \f4\fs28 \sbasedon0\snext19 Body Text 3;}{\s20\qj\nowidctlpar \f4 \sbasedon0\snext20 Body Text 21;}}{\info
{\title Appeal for financial assistance and patronage for the on-going programmes on Medical, Educational and Welfare Activities at Be}{\author J K DATTAGUPTA}{\operator CNMB}{\creatim\yr2000\mo11\dy3\hr17\min14}{\revtim\yr2000\mo11\dy6\hr17\min14}
{\version1}{\edmins2}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\vern49213}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\formshade \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s1\qc\sb240\sa60\keepn \b\f5\fs32\kerning32 {\fs28 
Appeal for financial assistance and patronage for the on-going programmes on Medical, Educational and Welfare Activities at Beldiha Sri Ramakrishna Ashrama, P.O. Shyambazar, Dist.-Hoogly, West Bengal, India
\par }\pard\plain \qj\li360 \f4 {\fs28 
\par }\pard \qj {\b\fs28 1. Introduction: -
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \f4\fs28 {\fs24 \tab 
\par \tab }{\fs22 God said, \ldblquote Let there be light,\rdblquote 
 ........ and there was light! The cosmos beamed, the stars twinkled. They all sang to the glory of the Almighty. The Homo sapiens came much later. But each carried in his self the biblical truth in its present form. It was as if the urge to enact the mir
acle was in its genes. They held a lamp each, ready to be kindled. The lamp was lit in all its ceremonial fervour but their eyes never glowed. Their barren hearts were deprived of the warmth that could churn out the \ldblquote man\rdblquote 
 within, form the quagmire of mere existence. The vast multitude dared not open their mouth to sing in praise of the God they had never ventured out to discover. Their God of knowledge, of light was in a deep slumber.
\par }{\fs24 \tab }{\fs22 
A cluster of villages in an obscure land called Beldiha-Shyambazar is an epitome of governmental apathy and social as well as educational enigma. The hapless inhabitants seem to tread blindfolded on a road leading to nowhere. It is as if the flowers of pr
osperity just refuses to bloom in their garden of destiny. The arid landscape is there to mock all their efforts and endeavours.
\par \tab The viscious circle of poverty-illiteracy-underdevelopment-poverty may be too simplistic an enunciation to formulate, but it may help us to delve into the crux of the problem and assist us in trying to decipher the truth in its proper dimension.

\par }\pard\plain \qj \f4 {\fs28 
\par }\pard \qj\tx0 {\b\fs28 2. Beldiha \endash  its inhabitants and their lives: -
\par }\pard \qj {\fs28 
\par }{\fs20 \tab }{\fs22 In this age of dot coms and microchips, Beldiha still continues to thrive as a breeding ground of abject poverty, illiteracy, malnutrition and a multitude of o
ther ailments. More than fifty thousand inhabitants of this village and its surroundings have been left to wither the storm of poverty, disease and lack of education and a hapless life devoid of any direction and purpose.
\par }\tab {\fs22 
The number of inhabitants at Beldiha and its adjoining areas (comprising of Shyambazar, Phului, Kayapata, Krishnaganj, Karnapur, Shantipur etc.) is in excess of 30,000. Amongst them, 30% to 40% comprise of agricultural landowner with fragmented ownership,
 30% are weavers and the rest landless labourers who survive on the whims of fate and their landlords for their daily bread.}
\par \tab {\fs22 
Given the existing socio-economic scenario it is not astonishing that only 1% of the villages are educated and 10% to 15% have merely survived to reach high school. The rest are drop-outs and hovering in the blind ally of illiteracy though official figure
s boasts of a hefty 85% (!) literacy rate in the villages. The paucity of proper educational facility has further aggravated the educational system and has almost brought it to a grinding halt.
\par \tab To cater the seven villages mentioned before there is only one primary school in Beldiha and a High school at Shyambazar. Even in these schools the infrastructural facilities have left much to be desired.
\par }\tab {\fs22 
There is a single health centre at Kamarpukur about 16 kms from Beldiha and a sub-divisional hospital at Arambagh which is 35 kms. away. The dismal condition of both the hospital and health centre is such that the aged and ailing people prefer to die at h
ome without treatment than to approach these haven of death.
\par \tab 
With the annual income of an average family of 5 members being Rs. 12,000/= (i.e. Rs. 200/= per month per person) on the optimistic side of the spectrum, it is natural that these villages will accept abject poverty as their destiny and gleefully resign t
o fate.
\par \tab It is astonishing, however, that these seemingly uneducated people living at the lowest strata of the society have, in their hearts a profound knowledge of their heritage and spiritual legend and nurture them with consummate benevolence.
\par }{\fs28 \tab }{\fs22 The protagonists for setting up of the \ldblquote }{\i\fs22 Beldiha Sri Ramakrishna Ashrama}{\fs22 \rdblquote 
 have always been the villagers and people belonging to the surrounding locality. It was through the singular contribution of the land by the dignified \ldblquote Koley family\rdblquote 
 that the wheels of the Ashrama were initially set in motion. With the benign grace of the Master and the unstinted enthusiasm of the villagers, the vision of the Ashrama being transformed into a bustling Mission center, may turn out to be a d
istinct reality.
\par \tab 
Besides donating the holy land where the shrine of the Master is built, the Koleys contributed a substantial amount to enable the Ashrama to purchase land adjoining the sacred shrine. The rest of the money and the expenses for the Ashrama till date are b
eing financed through the meagre but meaningful contributions from the people of the village.
\par }{\b\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\tx0 {\b\fs28 3. The crying need of the people: -}{\b\fs32 
\par }\pard \qj {\fs32 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \f4\fs28 {\fs24 \tab }{\fs22 It is pertinent to mention that in order to enable these inhabitants of Beldiha and adjoining areas to lead
 a life free from misery, illiteracy and physical ailments, a constructive effort by all is essential to give the required impetus in the right direction. We also believe that since the \ldblquote }{\i\fs22 Beldiha Sri Ramakrishna Ashrama}{\fs22 
\rdblquote  has already been established as the sanctum sanctorum of the Lord, this can act as the bastion from where the battle against poverty, illiteracy and sickness can be fought and won. 
\par \tab A number of surveys were conducted at Beldiha and its adjoining areas in order to assess the prevailing situa
tion and bring to the forefront the basic problems in order of preference that need to be addressed at this juncture. The immediate requirement can be broadly segregated into medical, educational and welfare activities.
\par }\pard \s16\qj\tx0 {\b 
\par }{\b\fs24 (A)\tab Medical: -}
\par {\fs22 (i)\tab To make arrangement for a regular full time (at least 4 hrs. a day) allopathic doctor \tab throughout the year along with a compounder.
\par (ii)\tab To have a full time homeopath doctor around the year.
\par (iii)\tab To arrange for special medical camps with specialists from Calcutta (ENT, \tab Paediatricians, Gynaecologists, orthopaedics etc.).
\par (iv)\tab A special project needs to be implemented to acquire some equipments viz. E.C.G. \tab machines, microscopes, pathological kit etc. to facilitate treatment of patients.
\par (v)\tab To maintain a basic stock of medicines necessary for treatment of patients.
\par (vi)\tab To maintain a mobile medical unit complete with necessary equipments to serve old and \tab ailing people belonging to distant villages and who are immobilized due to age and/or ill \tab health.
\par }{\b\fs24 (B)\tab Educational: -} 
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj \f4\fs28 {\fs22 (i)\tab To conduct free coaching classes for meritorious and deserving students (minimum \tab 100 numbers) studying between standard V and IX by teachers residing in the village.
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj\tx0 \f4\fs28 {\fs22 (ii)\tab To earmark the students who have dropped out of school due to the pecuniary \tab condition of their parents and bring them back to the mainstream of education.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\tx0 \f4 {\fs22 (iii)\tab Providing text and exercise books and other ancillary items (map, globes, kits etc.) \tab as well as nutritious food to needy students to help them pursue their studies further.
\par (iv)\tab To organize regular seminar, meetings and contests in the village}{\b\fs22  }{\fs22 to inculcate the values \tab and development of morality in the minds of the youth and inspire them to extend selfless \tab 
service to the deprived and the downtrdden.
\par }{\b 
\par (C)\tab Welfare activities: -}
\par {\fs22 (i)\tab To provide pecuniary assistance to aged and ailing widows and destitudes.}{\b\fs22 
\par }{\fs22 (ii)\tab Distribution of clothes, blankets, books to students as per their requirements on regular \tab basis.}{\b\fs22 
\par }{\fs22 (iii)\tab To organize veterinary camps for treatment of cattle and camps for soil testing \tab /pisciculture/cattle breeding in order to impart preliminary knowledge to the \tab villagers and make them economically self-sufficient.}{\b\fs22 

\par }{\fs22 (iv)\tab To provide infrastructure for setting up of handloom and power looms units in order to \tab facilitate alternative avenues of earnings (Beldiha and its surroundings being \tab predominantly villages of weavers).}{\b\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj {\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn \b\f5\fs32\kerning32 {\f4\fs28\kerning0 4. The on-going projects: -}{\b0\f4\fs28\kerning0 
\par }\pard\plain \f4 {\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj {\fs20 \tab }{\fs22 Since the inception of the Ashrama, a number of medical, educational and welfare projects have been taken up by the inhabitants of Beldiha-Shyambazar.
\par \tab Development of infrastructure was given the utmost priority among others as it was decided that in order to initiate the activities of the Ashrama, a permanent address and registered office was mandatory.
\par }\pard\plain \s20\qj \f4 {\fs22 \tab Accordingly, with the assistance of the \ldblquote Koley family\rdblquote 
 who had already gifted their land and also made enormous financial contribution, the shrine and the prayer hall was constructed. Subsequently, after acquiring the adjacent plots of land the school bu
ilding was erected with the generous and benevolent contributions from the villagers, devotees and patrons. The school
 building serves the dual purpose of holding regular coaching classes and also monthly medical camps. Besides, a single storied guest house (with provision for second story) has come up. Considering the remoteness of the place it was imperative that an ac
commodation be provided for the monks, doctors of medical camps, visitors and devotees.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \f4 {\fs22 \tab It may not be out of place to state that despite the lack of proper motorable roads, paucity of modern amenities etc., the secluded abode of peace is now being frequent
ed by the devotees from all corners of the globe including the USA and the U.K.}
\par \tab {\fs22 The following constitute the on-going projects already taken up by the villagers: -
\par }(1) {\ul Medical}: -{\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj\tx0 {\fs22 (a)\tab  Regular allopathic medical camps are being conducted on a monthly basis and free \tab medicine is being distributed to villagers. Dr. Dipak Dutta MD. MRCP. DTM&H \tab 
(specialist in chest medicine and cardiology) an eminent cardiologist and general medical \tab practitioner, is solely in charge of the medical camp.
\par (b)\tab   Medicines are now being procured from the contributions made by magnanimous \tab patrons. Appeals to a number of pharmaceutical companies have already been made \tab 
for supply of medicines as donations. Though the responses to these appeals are quite \tab encouraging, the supply of medicine is grossly inadequate as compared to \tab the demand.
\par (c)\tab Special camps are being organized (dental, eye, blood donation etc.) by renowned \tab doctors \tab from Calcutta at intervals.
\par (d)\tab A devotee doctor is running homeopathy unit regularly.
\par }\pard \qj {\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\tx0 (2) {\ul Educational}: -
\par {\fs22 (a)\tab As already stated, regular free coaching classes are being held for five (5) days a \tab week \tab around the year. More than 50 children between class-V and class-IX are \tab being taught by \tab 
four (4) teachers attached to Beldiha and its neighbourhood schools strictly on a voluntary \tab basis.
\par (b)\tab Text and exercise books are being distributed to the destitute school-going children \tab occasionally.
\par }\pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj\tx0 (3) {\ul Welfare}: -
\par {\fs22 (a)\tab New as well as old clothes and blankets are being distributed by the Ashrama at \tab intervals to the destitute and downtrodden.
\par (b)\tab Nine helpless widows of Beldiha and adjoining villages were identified and under \tab recommendation of the Ashrama are receiving pension @ Rs. 150/= per month per \tab person from the welfare section of Sri Sri  Ramakrishna Math, Belur.
\par (c)\tab An adjacent plot of land has been acquired by the Ashrama with the view to setting \tab up of a handloom unit to supplement the economic conditions of villagers.
\par (d)\tab Seminars, conferences and practical training programmes are being conducted to \tab impart \tab knowledge about the modern techniques of cultivations, farming, pisciculture and animal \tab husbandry.
\par (e)\tab Milk and biscuits are being distributed to the children and would-be-mother in the \tab villages \tab occasionally.
\par }\pard \qj {\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\qj\keepn \b\f4\fs32 {\fs28 5. The core areas identified: -}{\b0\fs28 
\par }\pard\plain \f4 {\fs28 
\par }\pard \qj {\fs20 \tab }{\fs22 
An extensive survey has recently been conducted to identify the distinct spheres of activities where a new thrust is contemplated for cohesive development of the area. It was decided that an integrated scheme be evolved and a more pragmatic elaborate mode
 of functioning be infused to the medical, educational and welfare activities presently being conducted.
\par \tab The following elementary steps in this direction were considered feasible: -
\par \tab 
\par }{\b\i A) Medical: -}{\b\i\fs28 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \f4\fs28 {\fs24 \tab }{\fs22 
The experience gained from the running of the regular medical camp (monthly) has brought to light the tragic condition of villagers at Beldiha-Shyambazar and its adjoining areas. Since the two major hospitals in this area are at Arambagh and Bishnupur, wh
ich are 35 Km and 60 Km respectively from the area and due to pr
ecarious condition of the health centers, the villagers from far-flung areas flock to the medical camp days ahead of schedule and expectantly await their turn for treatment. With the present limitation of doctors and medicine this enormous problem can nev
er be resolved.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \f4 {\fs22 The steps envisaged in Para 3A calls for an immediate expenditure as calculated below:
\par 
\par }i) {\ul Allopathic treatment}: -
\par {\fs28 
\par }{\fs22 1 No. full time general practitioner 
\par (4 hrs X 3 days a week)\tab \tab \tab  Rs. 2,000/= p.m.
\par 
\par 1 No. compounder-cum-dresser
\par (same as above)\tab \tab \tab \tab Rs. 1,000/= p.m.
\par Medicines (including maintenance
\par  of basic stock)\tab \tab \tab \tab Rs. 30,000/= p.m.
\par 
\par Total cost of allopathic treatment\tab \tab \tab \tab Rs. 33,000/= p.m.\tab (i)
\par 
\par }ii) {\ul Homeopathy treatment}: -{\fs28 
\par }{\fs22 
\par 1 No. full time homeopath doctor\tab Rs. 1,000/= p.m.
\par Medicines\tab \tab \tab \tab Rs. 1,000/= p.m.
\par 
\par Total cost of homeopathic treatment\tab \tab \tab \tab Rs. 2,000/= p.m.\tab (ii)
\par 
\par }(iii) {\ul Bi-monthly medical 
\par camps by Specialists from 
\par Calcutta (on semi-voluntary
\par  basis)}: -{\ul 
\par }{\fs22 
\par Traveling expenses etc. of doctors\tab Rs. 2,500/=
\par Meal charges for the team\tab \tab Rs. 1,000/=
\par Medicines etc. \tab \tab \tab \tab Rs. 6,500/=
\par Total cost per medical camp\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Rs. 10,000/=\tab \tab (iii)
\par 
\par }(iv) {\ul Acquisition of equipments}: -{\fs28 
\par }{\fs22 
\par E.C.G. machine \tab \tab \tab Rs. 20,000/=
\par Glucometer, colorimeter etc.\tab \tab Rs. 10,000/=
\par Pathological and other 
\par appliances and accessories
\par (including microscope)\tab \tab \tab Rs.50,000/=
\par Total cost \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Rs. 80,000/=\tab \tab (iv)
\par 
\par }(v) {\ul Basic stock of medicines}: -{\fs28 
\par }{\fs20 
\par }{\fs22 [Included in (i) above]\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab (v)
\par 
\par Hence the total yearly cost involved in imparting minimum medical facilities to the villages within the radius of 20 Km of Beldiha-Shyambazar is as follows: -
\par 
\par Allopathic treatment (Rs. 33,000/= X 12)\tab = Rs. 3,96,000/=
\par Homeopathy treatment (Rs. 2,000 X 12)\tab \tab = Rs. 24,000/=
\par Medical camps (Rs. 10,000 X 6)\tab \tab \tab = Rs. 60,000/=
\par 
\par Total cost per annum\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab = Rs. 4,80,000/=
\par }{\fs28 
\par }{\fs22 In addition to the above, the purchase of medical equipments will entail a cost of Rs. 80,000/=. Again the total cost of mobile medical van along with the equipments together with annual maintenance cost will be around Rs. 5.00 lakhs (one time).

\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s5\qj\keepn \f4\fs32 {\b\i\fs24 B) Educational: -
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \f4\fs28 {\fs24 \tab }{\fs22 The old adage of education being the backbone of the nation may sound clich\'e9
 but the inherent power of education can never be overemphasized. Education inculcates the sense of dignity, bestows courage and helps one with rational approach to life. It is im
perative to give education the prime position it deserves in all endeavour of social and economic upliftment. Unless the knowledge of the people are awakened, all projects and programmes may lead to a virtual fiasco.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \f4 {\fs20 \tab }{\fs22 As already enumerate
d in para 3.B. above, these may be construed as preliminary steps to be taken in the desired direction. In the coaching classes now being conducted, only 50 students can be accommodated and taught. This number is far less than the required minimum to make
 any positive impression on the existing socio-economic scenario. Again, if the school dropout be actually brought back to the mainstream, these facilities need a sincere facelift. The four eminent teachers of the neighbouring school have been shouldering
 t
his immense responsibility with a unique sense of service to mankind totally on a voluntary basis. As a token of appreciation for their gesture and also with a view to supplement their basic needs, an honorarium to these teachers is the least that can be 
and must be given.
\par }\tab {\fs22 The expenditure for implementation of the educational programmes envisaged in para 3.B is as follows: -
\par 
\par a)\tab Coaching-camp: -
\par \tab (considering of 100 students and
\par \tab 25 dropouts)
\par \tab Honorarium to 8 No. teachers \tab \tab --------\tab Rs. 4,000/= p.m.
\par b)\tab Salary of caretaker \tab \tab \tab --------\tab Rs. 500/= p.m.
\par c)\tab Textbook and reference books
\par \tab for library \tab \tab \tab \tab --------\tab Rs. 30,000/= (one time)
\par \tab Salary to librarian 
\par \tab (for 2 hrs. X 5 days a week) \tab \tab --------\tab Rs. 500/= p.m.
\par d)\tab Exercise books, textbooks,
\par \tab writing materials and ancillary
\par \tab class room instruments etc. \tab \tab --------\tab Rs. 2,000/= p.m.
\par e)\tab The cost of distribution of
\par \tab Nutritional food (for 100 student) \tab --------\tab Rs. 2,000/= p.m.
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\fi720 {\fs22 Thus the cost for operating coaching classes and distribution of books annually is approximately Rs. 1,08,000/=.
\par }\pard \qj {\fs22 \tab 
In addition to the above, an amount of Rs. 30,000/= against cost of books for library is initially needed. Though this is in the nature of one-time expenditure, the library books need to be replenished and updated regularly at an interval of at least 5 y
ears.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s5\qj\keepn \f4\fs32 {\b\i\fs24 C) Welfare activities: -}
\par \pard\plain \s19\qj \f4\fs28 \tab {\fs22 For the aged who are languishing in abject poverty and have no other source of survival but to beg at the road side, some welfare scheme have been contemplated to dole out some assistance for their surviv
al and support.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \f4 {\fs22 \tab 
Besides, it was also observed that in most cases, the cultivable land under the ownership of each family in the villages was grossly inadequate compared to the number of members of the family. The huge increase in the number of members and the subsequent
 division of the landed property has put immense pressure on the land and due to the phenomenon of disguised unemployment, the economic condition of villagers have grossly deteriorated. In order to supplement their income, a number of villag
ers have resorted to handloom weaving, this being their ancestral profession for ages. However these uneducated poor people fall easy prey to the guiles of the middlemen or the local entrepreneurs and only receive minimum reward for their efforts}.
\par \tab {\fs22 
In order to address this issue, a comprehensive rural development scheme has been thought out with the assistance of Ramakrishna Mission Pallimangal, Kamarpukur. A co-operative handloom (jute based cotton) scheme needs to be implemented where the villager
s will b
e actively involved in all strata of functioning starting from purchasing of raw materials to the marketing of finished products. With the help of this process, the self-confidence of the villagers will be enhanced and the brotherly feelings which are the
 crux of any co-operative functioning will be instilled in them.
\par }{\fs28 
\par }\pard\plain \s5\qj\keepn \f4\fs32 {\fs24 i) }{\fs24\ul Project Profile of handloom weaving}{\fs24 : -}
\par \pard\plain \s19\qj \f4\fs28 \tab {\fs22 To initiate the process on a small-scale basis, it has been decided to install 10 handlooms in an area of 800 sq. ft. to 1000 sq. ft. with provision
s for storage and office space. The target group initially will be the women living below poverty line (15 in numbers) and the anticipated income will be around Rs. 500.00 P.M. gradually increasing with development of skill and by manufacturing high value
 products. The raw materials can be procured from local markets at Kamarpukur or Arambagh and also in bulk quantities from Calcutta. Fine jute yarn and its dyeing can be done at the Pallimangal, Kamarpukur who will also assist in marketing of the finished
 products through their showroom. The necessary training of the beneficiaries will also be arranged by them. The financial outlay is as follows: 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \f4 {\fs22 
\par A.\tab Land. \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Own
\par B.\tab Building \endash  workshop,
\par \tab storage and office at 1000 sq. ft. 
\par \tab area (Rs. 400.00 per sq. ft.) \tab \tab \tab \tab Rs. 4,00,000/=
\par C\tab Plant & Machinery 
\par \tab (10 looms and accessories and
\par \tab one sewing machine) Handloom 
\par \tab 10 X 5000.00\tab \tab \tab \tab Rs. 50,000/=
\par \tab Sewing machines\tab \tab \tab Rs. 3,000/=
\par \tab Furniture & fixture \tab \tab \tab Rs. 5,000/=
\par \tab Total\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Rs. 58,000/=
\par D.\tab Working capital
\par \tab (2 months process cost)
\par \tab 10 looms X 2 mts X 2000.00\tab \tab \tab \tab Rs. 40,000/=
\par E.\tab Miscellaneous \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Rs. 2,000/=
\par 
\par Total cost \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Rs. 5,00,000/=
\par }\pard {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s5\qj\keepn \f4\fs32 {\fs24 ii) }{\fs24\ul Fund for destitute}{\fs24 : -}
\par {\fs28 \tab }{\fs22 In order to extend pecuniary help to widows and destitute regularly on a monthly basis, an endowment fund needs to be established. The interest received from the fund will be utilized in providing monthly pension to these destitutes.

\par }{\b\fs28 
\par }\pard \s5\qj\fi-720\li720\keepn {\b\fs28 The Total Financial Outlay for the Project: -
\par }{\fs22  
\par }\pard\plain \qj \f4 {\b\fs22 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab (Rs. in lakhs)
\par (i)\tab Endowment fund for Medical camps 
\par \tab and facilities\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 50.00
\par (ii)\tab Permanent fund for education \tab \tab \tab 8.50
\par (iii)\tab Expenditure for rural development 
\par \tab (handloom weaving) including capital 
\par \tab expenditure and working capital \tab \tab 5.00
\par (iv)\tab Endowment fund for pecuniary 
\par \tab help to widows and destitute\tab \tab \tab 10.00
\par (v)\tab Expenditure for completion of monk\rquote s
\par \tab quarter (2}{\b\fs22\super nd}{\b\fs22  story) and extension of 
\par \tab community hall \tab \tab \tab \tab 6.50
\par (vi)\tab Cost of mobile medical unit along
\par \tab with its accessories\tab \tab \tab \tab 5.00
\par }{\fs22 
\par }{\b \tab Total }\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab {\b\ul 85.00}{\fs22 
\par }{\fs28 
\par }{\fs22 The financial position of the Ahrama (abridged) for the year-ended 31.03.2000 is as follows: -
\par SOURCES OF FUND: - 
\par 
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab (Rs. in lakhs)
\par Capital Fund \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 1.61
\par Community Hall Fund\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 1.54
\par Monk\rquote s quarter Fund\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 2.07
\par General Fund\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 0.72
\par Development Fund\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 0.07
\par Sundry Creditors\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 0.36
\par Loans and Advances\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 0.46
\par 
\par Total \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 6.63
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\qj \f4 {\fs22 UTILISATION OF FUND: - 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \f4 
\par {\fs22 Land \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 0.92
\par Community Hall \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 1.82
\par Monk\rquote s quarter & furniture\tab \tab \tab \tab 2.84
\par Equipments\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 0.35
\par Sundry assets\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 0.28
\par Investment / Cash\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 0.42
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar Total\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 6.63
\par \pard\plain \s5\qj\keepn \f4\fs32 {\b\fs28 6. Projected mode of financing: -
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar \f4 
\par \pard \qj {\fs20 \tab }{\fs22 
As has been explained with earlier paragraphs, the ongoing projects at Beldiha and its adjoining areas are being financed largely by the handful of relatively well-to-do inhabitants of the area and is supplemented by the patrons and well wishers at Aramba
gh and Calcutta. Besides the plot of land gifted by the benevolent \lquote Koley family\rquote , the adjacent plot of land were acquired from time to time on which the school premises and guest house was erected. The cost incurred for 
purchase of land and for building the required premises along with the shrine entailed a cost of over six lakhs. In addition to this, a number of furnitures and other items were acquired to facilitate holding of coaching classes, homeopathic dispensary an
d monthly medical camps. The guest house also adequately equiped with the required amenities for modern living.
\par }\tab {\fs22 Thus the local inhabitants of Beldiha have gone a long way in contributing their limited resources in cash, kind and physical labour in setting 
up of the Ashrama and the basic infrastructural facilites necessary for giving the required impetus to set the projects in motion. It is most praiseworthy that these villages who come from varied economic, social, cultural and religious environment have a
ssembled under one roof with the true essence of brotherhood and soliderity. In a country which is often accused of bigotry and fanaticism, this indeed a unique phenomenon! It not only gives ample evidence of the good will and determination of the inhabit
ants, it also reflects their faith in themselves and their endeavour to adhere to the immense cultural fraternity to which all belong.}
\par {\fs20 \tab }{\fs22 
In unison the ongoing projects, a number of diverse and relevant projects have been envisaged as explained earlier. It was also contemplated the existing projects need to be pepped up in accordance with the requirements of the villagers and the experience
 accumulated during the implementation of this project. On this account this project proposal was initially visualised.
\par \tab To
 augment the flow of fund from the patrons and the well wishers in India, it has been decided that a souvenir will be published annually on any auspicious occasion. The souvenir will contain an elaborate resume of the activities of the Ashrama and some th
ought providing essays and write ups on different aspects of life namely culture ethics, health, sports etc. These advertisements, which will be collected for this publication, will act as regular source of funds for the projects and supplement parts of t
he working capital of handloom industry.
\par }\tab {\fs22 
Also a number of cultural programs by eminent are being arranged for collection of fund. Sale of tickets of this program (which will be in accordance with the cultural heritage of the land) will fetch a substantial amount of fund that will be utilized in 
building up of infrastructural facilities in addition to those already in existence.
\par \tab Finally, a number of resourceful individuals in our country are being approached so that a permanent endowment fund is created for the expansion of the project. 
\par }\pard\plain \s5\qj\keepn \f4\fs32 {\b\fs22 
\par }{\b\fs28 7. Conclusion: -}{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \f4\fs28 \tab 
\par \tab {\i\fs22 Beldiha Sri Ramakrishna Ashrama}{\fs22 
 has made a very humble beginning. But despite their economic and educational constraints, the villagers have woken up to a new dawn. They have shown exemplary courage and wisdom to usher in an area of prosperity and freedom from bondage of poverty, malnu
trition, ignorance and social stigma. The service they did to themselves was symbolic of the faith they have in their self and in God.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \f4 {\fs22 \tab Here is a unique opportunity to serve 
God in man! The ultimate patriarch beckons you all! To His kingdom of love, emancipation and bliss. Come and identify yourselves with these underprivileged  brethern of yours. May be their affinity will open up new vistas in your life, and elevate your ex
istence to a new dimension. Your financial assistance in any form and of any amount will give enormous strength to the continuing and upcoming project at Beldiha and its adjoining villages. We have already applied for the 80G exemption from the Income Tax
 authorities and the formalities are on the last stage of completion.
\par }\pard\plain \s20\qj \f4 {\fs22 \tab 
It is our earnest prayer that the benign grace of Sri Ramakrishna be bestowed on your life. May the benediction of the omnipotent Lord illuminate your souls. By your benevolent service to humanity, may you enjoy the ecstasy of transcendental bliss and ha
rmony.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Dakshinapada Nandi
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Secretary,
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Beldiha Sri Ramakrishna Ashrama.
\par }}